[VIV-26041] Preference Learning and Documentation (#14)
bixbydevelopers/capsule-sample-space-resorts: README.md

---

## Use cases

### Finding Space Resorts

#### Outer "find" Queries

![Outer "find" Query](./assets/images/OuterFindQuery.png)

You can see all trained utterances and plans by entering this query in the
training tab search bar: `goal:SpaceResort#all -has:continue`. Examples:

- Find space resorts

- Show me space hotels with crater canyoneering

- Search for hotels around The Red Planet

- Look for space hotels with quantum bungee jumping around Saturn

> We train these to have the goal `SpaceResort#all` and we annotate any resort

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We train these to have the goal `SpaceResort#all` and annotate any resort
```

names, planets and search criteria as Values. Here `SpaceResort#all` is a
property projection to the `all` property of the `SpaceResort`. This property is

> a boolean of type `ViewAll` which is always true and is used as a proxy to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a boolean of type `ViewAll`, which is always true and is used as a proxy to
```

> signify that we want to display the full space resort, instead of focussing on a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
signify that we want to display the full space resort, instead of focusing on a
```

single property like `gravity` or `planet` (see property projections below). We

> use a match-pattern to then tie our views and dialogs for this property

Reviewer 2: We
use a match-pattern to then tie our views and dialogs for this property
projection to describe the whole hotel.

>

A match-pattern ties the views and dialogs for this property projection to describe the whole hotel

projection to describe the whole hotel.

```
match {
  ViewAll(all) {
    from-property {
      SpaceResort (result)
    }
  }
}
```

> Why do we treat this as a property projection instead of setting the goal to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Why treat this as a property projection instead of setting the goal to the
```

`SpaceResort` Structure?

> When the user wants to book a space resort and there were many possible

Reviewer 2: The tense in this sentence should be more consistent.

When the user wants to book a space resort and there are many possible candidates in context, the user picks a single one using a selection prompt, in order to continue with the booking (see SpaceResort Selection Prompt selection below for full details).

> candidates in context, we have a Selection Prompt to ask the user to pick a

Reviewer: Lower case Selection Prompt throughout

single one in order to pursue with the booking (see SpaceResort Selection Prompt
section below for full details). The context for that prompt is `SpaceResort`,
and **Selection Prompt training must always have the same goal as its context**.

> Thus by definition the Selection Prompt for `SpaceResort` will definitely need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accordingly, Selection Prompt for `SpaceResort` needs
```

to use `SpaceResort` as its goal.

The Selection Prompt training also uses a special flagged signal to route the
plan through the `SelectResort` Action that filters the hotels currently in
context based on the newly provided inputs. It is crucial to add the
`SelectResort` flagged signal to the Selection Prompt training annotations to
achieve this behavior.  However, we do not want to add the `SelectResort`

> flagged signal to the "find" queries because these should issue a new search via

Reviewer 2: should issue or would issue?

the `FindSpaceResorts` Action instead of filtering existing results via the
`SelectResort` Action. Since the Selection Prompt requires different annotations
patterns compared to the "find" queries, and **annotation patterns must be
consistent for the same goal**, this means that they must use a different goal.

> We have now demonstrated two points.  Firstly, that the Selection Prompt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have now demonstrated two points.  First, the Selection Prompt
```

> We have now demonstrated two points.  Firstly, that the Selection Prompt

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates two points.  First, that the Selection Prompt
```

> training must use `SpaceResort` as a goal. Secondly, that the "find" queries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
training must use `SpaceResort` as a goal. Second, that the "find" queries
```

must use a different goal than the Selection Prompts. By putting these together,
we deduce that the "find" queries cannot use `SpaceResort` as a goal. Therefore,
we use a distinct goal (`SpaceResort#all`) for the "find" queries in order to
provide consistent annotation patterns per goal.

> We don't we set the goal to the `FindSpaceResorts` Action?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why don't we set the goal to the `FindSpaceResorts` Action?
```

Do you mean this?

Another alternative would be to set the goal to the specific `FindSpaceResorts`
Action, making it very clear how to fulfill the request. This approach would
simplify the match patterns for views, so we would not need to use the

> `from-property` key. However, we elect to use the property projection approach

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`from-property` key. However, we use the property projection approach
```

so that our final resting context for "find" queries is the same as for property
projection queries.  This means that we can pivot between all these states
seamlessly, or launch the "book" flow from any of these. Example conversation:

1. Find space resorts

2. The second one

3. What planet is it on?

4. What's the gravity there?

5. Book it

#### Inner "find" Queries (Continuations)

![Inner "find" Query](./assets/images/InnerFindQuery.png)

You can see all trained utterances and plans by entering this query in the
training tab search bar: `goal:SpaceResort#all has:continue`. Examples:

- On Jupiter

- With low gravity

- Only the ones that are kid-friendly

These are continuations of the outer "find" queries that allow users to refine
their space resorts search by providing additional inputs. Since the goal for

> outer "find" queries is `SpaceResort#all`, we annotate both the goal and the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
outer "find" queries is `SpaceResort#all`, annotate both the goal and the
```

> "Continuation of" to also be `SpaceResort#all`.  We annotate any resort names,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"Continuation of" to also be `SpaceResort#all`.  Any resort names,
```

> planets and search criteria as Values.  This will reissue a search with the new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
planets and search criteria as Values.  This reissues a search with the new
```

> planets and search criteria as Values.  This will reissue a search with the new

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
planets and search criteria are annotated as Values.  This reissues a search with the new
```

inputs being added to those already in context.

### Property Projection Flows (Planet, Gravity)

#### Outer Property Projections

![Outer Property Projection](./assets/images/OuterPropertyProjection.png)

You can see all trained utterances and plans by entering this query in the
training tab search bar: `goal:SpaceResort#* -goal:SpaceResort#all
-has:continue`. For example:

- What's the gravity at The Mercurial?

- Where is Io-Tel?

> Here the user is asking to know about a specific property of a space resort,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, the user is asking to know about a specific property of a space resort,
```

such as the gravity or the planet.  We train the goal to be that property
projection (ex: `SpaceResort#gravity`), and we annotate any resort names,
planets and search criteria as Values.  We also add a special flagged signal
route to `ProjectResort`.  This is in case there were multiple space resorts
that matched the search inputs.  Then the `ProjectResort` Action will ask the
user to select a single space resort before providing the answer.

#### Inner Property Projections (Continuations)

![Inner Property Projection](./assets/images/OuterPropertyProjection.png)

You can see all trained utterances and plans by entering this query in the
training tab search bar: `goal:SpaceResort#* -goal:SpaceResort#all
has:continue`. For example:

- What's the gravity there?

- What planet is it on?

We train these just like the outer property projections, with the addition of a

> "Continuation of" `SpaceResort`.  This allow pivoting between inner/outer "find"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"Continuation of" `SpaceResort`.  This allows pivoting between inner/outer "find"
```

queries and inner/outer property projections.

### Booking Space Resorts

#### Outer "book" Queries

You can see all trained utterances and plans by entering this query in the
training tab search bar: `goal:Order#commitOrder -has:continue`. For example:

- Make a reservation for a space resort on Mars the third weekend in December
for 2 astronauts

We train these to the goal `Order#commitOrder` where `commitOrder` is a
named-consumer on the `Order`. We also add two flagged signal routes:
`CreateItem` and `CreateOrder`.  We annotate as Values any present inputs for
either "find" or "book", such as resort name, planet, search criteria, number of

> astronauts, etc.  All this will create a plan to first find a space resort that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
astronauts, etc.  This creates a plan to first find a space resort that
```

matches the search inputs, then prepare an `Order` and pass it to the

> `CommitOrder` Action which will present the user with a Confirmation screen to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`CommitOrder` Action, which will present the user with a Confirmation screen to
```

review and agree to the reservation.

#### Inner "book" Queries (Continuations of SpaceResort)

You can see all trained utterances and plans by entering this query in the
training tab search bar: `goal:Order#commitOrder continuation:SpaceResort`. For
example:

- Make reservation

- Book a pod for 2 astronauts

We train these just like the outer "book" queries, with the addition of a
"Continuation of" `SpaceResort`.  This is to cover cases where the users are
already browsing space resorts and want to initiate a booking for one of the
results in context.

#### Inner "Change Order" Queries (Continuations to change the Order)

You can see all trained utterances and plans by entering this query in the
training tab search bar: `goal:Order#commitOrder
continuation:Order#commitOrder`. For example:

- Pick a different habitat pod

- Change that to 2 astronauts

- Select a different date

We train these as "Continuation of" `Order#commitOrder` for cases where the
users are at the Confirmation screen to review their order and decide that they

> want to make some changes.  The goal remains `Order#commitOrder` and any Values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
want to make some changes.  The goal remains `Order#commitOrder`, and any Values
```

are annotated as such (ex: number of astronauts, pod name).  This time, the
flagged signal route is to `ChangeOrder`.  This is to re-route the request to
update the Order with the newly provided information.  For generic requests that

> do not contain a new input Value (ex: Change the number of astronauts), then we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
do not contain a new input Value (ex: Change the number of astronauts), we
```

add an extra flagged signal route to the Action for that request (ex:
GetNumberOfAstronauts).

### Prompting Flows

#### Confirmation Prompt

![Confirmation Prompt](./assets/images/ConfirmationPrompt.png)

You can see all trained utterances and plans by entering this query in the
training tab search bar: `prompt:Confirmation`. For example:

- Yes

- Do it

When the user is done reviewing their Order at the Confirmation Prompt, they can
use these utterances to move forward and proceed with the reservation. This is
an "At prompt for" `Confirmation` with goal `Confirmation`.  The Confirmation
itself is annotated with a boolean Value "true" or "false".

#### SpaceResort Selection Prompt

![SpaceResort Selection Prompt](./assets/images/SpaceResortSelectionPrompt.png)

You can see all trained utterances and plans by entering this query in the
training tab search bar: `prompt:SpaceResort`. For example:

- The one with a refueling station

- The Mercurial

- The one on Venus

The booking flow only allows a single SpaceResort at a time, so when there are

> multiple candidates the user will be presented with a `SpaceResort` Selection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multiple candidates, the user will be presented with a `SpaceResort` Selection
```

Prompt.  For prompt training, the goal must always match the prompt context, so
we train these as "At prompt for" `SpaceResort` with goal `SpaceResort`. There
are many ways the user can answer, so we annotate any provided Value (space
resort name, planet, search criteria) and add a special flagged signal route to

> the `SelectResort` Action.  This Action will take the hotels currently in

Reviewer: Make Action lowercase throughout.
